== Terrain ==

This program generates 3D models of areas of the earth's surface.

It uses the SRTM 90m elevation data from CGIAR-CSI which is
downloadable free of charge (see http://srtm.csi.cgiar.org).  It
outputs STL.


== Basic use ==

1. Pick a latitude and longitude (Google Maps will show it when you
click on a point.)

2. Run terrain.  It won't work because we don't have the input data
yet, but it will tell us which tiles we need.

    terrain --position 56,-4 out.stl

3. Obtain the input data tiles from CGIAR-CSI or a mirror.

    http://srtm.csi.cgiar.org/SELECTION/inputCoord.asp

You want the ArcInfo ASCII format.  The download interface on the
website is painful so you may find it easier just to construct a
direct URL.

    wget http://srtm.csi.cgiar.org/SRT-ZIP/SRTM_v41/SRTM_Data_ArcASCII/srtm_36_01.zip

Unzip the downloaded file and you should obtain a file named srtm_36_01.asc.

3. Run terrain to generate a model.

    terrain --position 56,-4 out.stl

4. Look at the output in your favourite STL viewer.

    meshlab out.stl &


== Options ==

--position LAT,LONG

Latitude and longitude as decimals.  North of the equator is positive,
south is negative. East from Greenwich is positive, west is negative.

Usually the centre of the area to be modelled (but see --offset).

--dimensions ARCSECxARCSEC

Size of the area to model in arcseconds, latitude first.  Defaults to
300x600.

Remember as you go further north or south from the equator, arcseconds
of longitude get smaller.

--base-altitude METRES

The bottom of the volume to be modelled.  Defaults to 0m (sea level).
If you are modelling land on a plateau or massif you may want to set
this higher so that your model won't be on such a thick base.  If you
are modelling land that goes below sea level you'll need to use a
negative value to put the base low enough.

--scale FACTOR

Defaults to 100, meaning 1:100.  This might seem like a larger scale
than anyone would want, but note that the program outputs in metres
whereas 3D printers commonly expect millimetres, so you might already
be getting a factor of 1000 on top of what you specify here.

--input-dir DIR

If you have your .asc files somewhere other than the current
directory, point to them with this option.

--offset ARCSECxARCSEC

In arcseconds, latitude first.  Offset from the specified position to
the southwest corner of the area.  By default the position is the
centre of the area.  So if you'd rather specify the southwest corner
you can use an offset of 0x0.

However, the main reason for this option is to generate multi-part
models without having to change the reference position.  This is
convenient because the dimensions are in arcseconds so it's easier to
do your local positioning in arcseconds too.  It's also more accurate,
because the program calculates the number of metres per arcsecond at
the specified position, and if you change the position between two of
the parts their scales may not match perfectly.


== Examples ==

Mont Blanc.  Needs srtm_30_03.asc.

    terrain -p 45.8334,6.8650


Mount Kilimanjaro.  Needs srtm_44_13.asc.  We use a size of 1500x1500
and base altitude of 600m.

    terrain -p -3.076,37.35 -d 1500x1500 -b 600


Ben Nevis.  This crosses a tile boundary - needs both srtm_35_01.asc
and srtm_36_01.asc.

    terrain -p 56.812,-4.99
